Tutorial: Qubit-level programming (#551)
MicrosoftDocs/quantum-docs-pr: articles/tutorials/qft-tutorial.md

﻿---
title: Tutorial: Addressing individual qubits in a quantum program | Microsoft Docs
description: Step-by-step tutorial on writing and simulating a quantum program which operates at the individual qubit level
author: gillenhaalb
ms.author: a-gibec@microsoft.com
ms.topic: tutorial 
ms.date: 10/06/2019
uid: microsoft.quantum.circuit-tutorial
---

# Tutorial: Write and simulate qubit-level programs in Q#
Welcome to the Quantum Development Kit tutorial on writing and simulating a basic quantum program that operates on individual qubits. 

Although the power of quantum computation is revealed at the higher level of "what a quantum algorithm does", we should remember that even the most complex quantum programs are built upon operations at the level of individual qubits.
The flexibility of Q# allows users to approach quantum systems from any such level of abstraction, and in this tutorial we dive into the qubits themselves.
Specifically, we take a look under the hood of the [quantum Fourier transform](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_Fourier_transform), a subroutine that is integral to many larger quantum algorithms.

> Note that this low-level view of quantum information processing is often desribed in terms of "[quantum circuits](xref:microsoft.quantum.concepts.circuits)," which represent the sequential application of gates to specific qubits of a system.

Reviewer: `s/desribed/described/`

> ## Pre-requisites

Reviewer: `s/Pre-requisites/Prerequisites/`

## Allocate qubits and define quantum operations

The first part of this tutorial consists of defining the Q# operation `Perform3qubitQFT`, which performs the quantum Fourier transform on three qubits. 

In addition, we will use the [`DumpMachine`](xref:microsoft.quantum.diagnostics.dumpmachine) function to observe how the simulated wavefunction of our three qubit system evolves across the operation.

To create a your Q# project, follow these [instructions](xref:microsoft.quantum.howto.createproject), and create a Q# file entitled `Operations.qs`.
We will walk you through the components of the file step-by-step, but the code is also available as a full block below.

### Namespaces to access other Q# operations
Inside the file, we first define the namespace `Quantum.Operations` which will be accessed/imported by the classical host.
For our operation to make use of existing Q# operations, we open the relevant `Microsoft.Quantum.<>` namespaces.

```qsharp
namespace Quantum.Operations {
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Diagnostics;

> 	open Microsoft.Quantum.Math;

Reviewer: Weird indentation unintentional? (Check for hard tabs in the source.)

    open Microsoft.Quantum.Arrays;

	// operations go here
}
```

### Define operations with arguments and returns
Next, we define the `Perform3qubitQFT` operation:

```qsharp
    operation Perform3qubitQFT() : Unit {
		// do stuff

> 	}

Reviewer: Weird indentation unintentional? (Check for hard tabs in the source.)

```
For now, the operation takes no arguments and does not return anything---in this case we write that it returns a `Unit` object, which is akin to `void` in C# or an empty tuple, `Tuple[()]`, in Python.
Later, we will modify it to return an array of measurement results, at which point `Unit` will be replaced by `Result[]`. 

### Allocate qubits with `using`
Within our Q# operation, we first allocate a register of three qubits with the `using` statement:

```qsharp
        using (qs = Qubit[3]) {

            Message("Initial state |000>:");
            DumpMachine();

> 		}

Reviewer: Weird indentation unintentional? (Check for hard tabs in the source.)

```

With `using`, the qubits are automatically allocated in the $\ket{0}$ state. We can verify this by using [`Message(<string>)`](xref:microsoft.quantum.intrinsic.message) and [`DumpMachine()`](xref:microsoft.quantum.diagnostics.dumpmachine), which print a string and the system's current state to the host console.

> [!NOTE]
> The `Message(<string>)` and `DumpMachine()` functions (from [`Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic`](xref:microsoft.quantum.intrinsic) and [`Microsoft.Quantum.Diagnostics`](xref:microsoft.quantum.diagnostics), respectively) both print directly to our classical host's console. 
> Just like a real quantum computation, Q# does not allow us to directly access qubit states.
> However, as `DumpMachine` prints the target machine's current state, it can provide valuable insight for debugging and learning when used in conjunction with the full state simulator.

### Applying single-qubit and controlled gates

> Next, we apply the gates which comprise the operation itself (see the circuit diagram and explanation for the three-qubit example [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_Fourier_transform#Example)).

Reviewer: The parenthetical could be its own standalone sentence, and not parenthesized.

> Next, we apply the gates which comprise the operation itself (see the circuit diagram and explanation for the three-qubit example [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quantum_Fourier_transform#Example)).

Reviewer 2: Although we ask learners read through the wikipedia page of QFT, it may still be good that we provide the circuit diagram as we construct the circuit in Q# step-by-step. 

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/59890648/76322362-94b1cd00-62e3-11ea-9064-b8a42ce96cbe.png)

Reviewer 3: If possible, I would suggest against including a circuit diagram to avoid furthering the existing impression that Q# is a circuit-generation tool rather than a quantum programming language.

Reviewer 2: Understand the concern. But as a self-contained tutorial, with this one specifically about programming each qubit, it gives better experience for readers to know where the code is at.

Q# already contains many basic quantum gates as operations in the [`Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic`](xref:microsoft.quantum.intrinsic) namespace, and these are no exception. 

> To apply an operation to a specific qubit from a register (i.e. a single `Qubit()` from an array `Qubit[]`) we use standard index notation.

Reviewer: `s/Qubit()/Qubit/` unless I'm misunderstanding what's going on here

So, applying the [`H`](xref:microsoft.quantum.intrinsic.h) (Hadamard) to the first qubit of our register `qs` takes the form:

```qsharp
            H(qs[0]);
```

Besides applying the `H` (Hadamard) gate to individual qubits, the QFT circuit consists primarily of controlled [`R1`](xref:microsoft.quantum.intrinsic.r1) rotations.
An `R1(θ, <qubit>)` operation in general leaves the $\ket{0}$ component of the qubit unchanged, while applying a rotation of $e^{i\theta}$ to the $\ket{1}$ component.

> 

Reviewer: Extraneous blank lines here.

```qsharp
            Controlled R1([qs[1]], (PI()/2.0, qs[0]));
            Controlled R1([qs[2]], (PI()/4.0, qs[0]));
```

Note that we use the [`PI()`](xref:microsoft.quantum.math.pi) function from the [`Microsoft.Quantum.Math`](xref:microsoft.quantum.math) namespace to define the rotations in terms of pi radians.
Additionally, we divide by a `Double` (e.g. `2.0`) because dividing by an integer `2` would throw a type error. 

> [!TIP]
> `R1(π/2)` and `R1(π/4)` are equivalent to the `S` and `T` operations (also in `Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic`).

After applying the relevant Hadamards and controlled rotations to the second and third qubits:

```qsharp
            //second qubit:
            H(qs[1]);
            Controlled R1([qs[2]], (PI()/2.0, qs[1]));

            //third qubit:
            H(qs[2]);
```

we need only apply a [`SWAP`](xref:microsoft.quantum.intrinsic.swap) gate to complete the circuit:

```qsharp
            SWAP(qs[2], qs[0]);
```

This is necessary because the nature of the quantum Fourier transform outputs the qubits in reverse order, so the swaps allow for seamless integration of the subroutine into larger algorithms.

> #### De-allocate qubits

Reviewer: `s/De-allocate/Deallocate/`

And also on line 165, and anywhere else it appears.

We then call [`DumpMachine()`](xref:microsoft.quantum.diagnostics.dumpmachine) again to see the post-operation state, and finally apply [`ResetAll`](xref:microsoft.quantum.intrinsic.resetall) to the qubit register to reset our qubits to $\ket{0}$ before completing the operation:

```qsharp
            Message("After:");
            DumpMachine();

            ResetAll(qs);
```

Requiring that all de-allocated qubits be explicitly set to $\ket{0}$ is a basic feature of Q#.
If it is not performed at the end of a `using` allocation block, a runtime error will be thrown.

Your full Q# file should now look like this:

```qsharp
namespace Quantum.Operations {
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Diagnostics;

> 	open Microsoft.Quantum.Math;

Reviewer: Funky indentation, check for hard tabs in the source.

    open Microsoft.Quantum.Arrays;

    operation Perform3qubitQFT() : Unit {

        using (qs = Qubit[3]) {

            Message("Initial state |000>:");
            DumpMachine();

            //QFT:
            //first qubit:
            H(qs[0]);
            Controlled R1([qs[1]], (PI()/2.0, qs[0]));
            Controlled R1([qs[2]], (PI()/4.0, qs[0]));

            //second qubit:
            H(qs[1]);
            Controlled R1([qs[2]], (PI()/2.0, qs[1]));

            //third qubit:
            H(qs[2]);

            SWAP(qs[2], qs[0]);

            Message("After:");
            DumpMachine();

            ResetAll(qs);
        }
    }
}
```

With the Q# file and operation complete, it is ready to be called and simulated by the classical host.

## Set up the classical host

> Having defined our Q# operation in a `.qs` file, we now write the classical host file to call that operation and process any returned classical data (for now, there isn't anything to process---recall that our operation defined above returns `Unit`).

Reviewer: `s/host file/host program/g`?

            using (var qsim = new QuantumSimulator())
            {
                Perform3QubitQFT.Run(qsim).Wait();
            }
            
            System.Console.WriteLine("Press any key to continue...");
            Console.ReadKey();
        }
    }
}

```
Run the application, and your output should match that below.
The program will exit after you press a key.
***

```Output
Initial state |000>:
# wave function for qubits with ids (least to most significant): 0;1;2
|0>:	 1.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	******************** [ 1.000000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|1>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
|2>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
|3>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
|4>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
|5>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
|6>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
|7>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
After:

> # wave function for qubits with ids (least to most significant): 0;1;2

Reviewer 2: "wavefunction" should be one word.

Reviewer 3: This is in generated output, and accurately reflects what is printed by the `DumpMachine` and `DumpRegister` callables; the fix "wave function" → "wavefunction" should thus be applied to this line: https://github.com/microsoft/qsharp-runtime/blob/ebb4b2a9de0110ab45a6e38b38cfbd664759483f/src/Simulation/Simulators/QuantumSimulator/Dump.cs#L31.

Reviewer 2: Made the change in runtime repo and merged a PR to master there.

Reviewer: Btw, in my "copyedit" PR, I noticed the inconsistent use of `wave function` versus `wavefunction` throughout the current docs, but didn't change it. For the scientific concept, English uses [wave function](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wave_function) two words; I assumed "wavefunction" one word might be some Q#-specific term of art; I don't know enough about the domain to know when the one-word version is appropriate.

|3>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|4>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|5>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|6>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|7>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
```

When called on the full-state simulator, `DumpMachine()` provides these mutliple representations of the quantum state's wavefunction. 
The possible states of an $n$-qubit system can be represented by $2^n$ computational basis states, each with a corresponding complex coefficient (simply an amplitude and a phase).
The computational basis states correspond to all the possible binary strings of length $n$---that is, all the possible combinations of qubit states $\ket{0}$ and $\ket{1}$, where each binary digit corresponds to an individual qubit.

The first row provides a comment with the IDs of the corresponding qubits in their significant order.

> Qubit `2` being the "most significant" simply means that in the binary representation of basis state vector $\ket{i}$, the state of qubit `2` corresponds to the left-most digit. 

Reviewer: Incidentally, I'd say "leftmost" and "rightmost," not "left-most" and "right-most"; but this repo currently uses the latter consistently.

Author: I was also unsure, but figured consistency is king! 🤷‍♂

For example, $\ket{6} = \ket{110}$ comprises qubits `2` and `1` both in $\ket{1}$ and qubit `0` in $\ket{0}$.

The rest of the rows describe the probability amplitude of measuring the basis state vector $\ket{i}$ in both Cartesian and polar formats.
In detail for the first row of our input state $\ket{000}$:
* **`|0>:`** this row corresponds to the `0` computational basis state (given that our initial state post-allocation was $\ket{000}$, we would expect this to be the only state with probability amplitude at this point).
* **`1.000000 +  0.000000 i`**: the probability amplitude in Cartesian format.

> * **` == `**: the `equal` sign seperates both equivalent representations.

Reviewer: `s/seper/separ/`

* **`********************`**: A graphical representation of the magnitude, the number of `*` is proportionate to the probability of measuring this state vector. 
* **`[ 1.000000 ]`**: the numeric value of the magnitude
* **`    ---`**: A graphical representation of the amplitude's phase.
* **`[ 0.0000 rad ]`**: the numeric value of the phase (in radians).

> Both the magnitude and the phase are displayed with a graphical representation. The magnitude representation is straight-forward: it shows a bar of `*`, and the higher the probability, the larger the bar will be. For the phase, see the DumpMachine section [here](xref:microsoft.quantum.techniques.testing-and-debugging#dump-functions) for the possible symbol representations based on angle ranges.

Reviewer: `s/straight-forward/straightforward/`

Did this patch already get merged, or is it cutting and pasting code from elsewhere in this repo? This exact sentence currently appears in testing-and-debugging.md.

Author: Yes, the majority of this explanation was simply lifted from there. Two reasons: 1) figured it better to simply explain the "need to know" here, rather than linking out to the specific section on the other page, and 2) that page will be getting a face lift in the coming weeks anyway

There are many sorts of quantum measurements, but we will focus on the most basic: projective measurements on single qubits.
Upon measurement in a given basis (e.g. the computational basis $ \{ \ket{0}, \ket{1} \} $), the qubit state is projected onto whichever basis state was measured---hence destroying any superposition between the two.

To implement measurements within a Q# program, we use the `M` operation (from `Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic`), which returns a `Result` type.

First, we modify our `Perform3QubitQFT` operation to return an array of measurement results, `Result[]`, instead of `Unit`.

```qsharp
    operation Perform3QubitQFT() : Result[] {
```

#### Define and initialize `Result[]` array

Before even allocating qubits (i.e. before the `using` statement), we declare and bind this length-3 array (one `Result` for each qubit): 

```qsharp
        mutable resultArray = new Result[3];
```

The `mutable` keyword prefacing `resultArray` allows the variable to be rebound later in the code---for example, when adding our measurement results.

#### Perform measurements in a `for` loop and add results to array

> After the Fourier transorm operations inside the `using` block, insert the following code:

Reviewer: `s/transorm/transform/`

```qsharp
            for(i in IndexRange(qs)) {
				set resultArray w/= i <- M(qs[i]);
            }
```
The [`IndexRange`](xref:microsoft.quantum.arrays.indexrange) function called on an array (e.g. our array of qubits, `qs`) returns a range over the indices of the array. 
Here, we use it in our `for` loop to sequentially measure each qubit using the `M(qs[i])` statement.
Each measured `Result` type (either `Zero` or `One`) is then added to the corresponding index position in `resultArray` with an update-and-reassign statement.

> [!NOTE]

> > The syntax of this statement is unique to Q#, but corresponds to the similar `set r[i] <- M(qs[i]);` seen in other languages.

Reviewer: Other languages such as...? In my experience, traditional languages generally just say `r[i] = M(qs[i]);`. I'm not aware of any other languages that use a keyword `set` _nor_ a left-arrow `<-` for assignment, let alone both at once.

I recommend removing the note and adding a hyperlink to "Update-and-reassign statement" instead.

Author: F# is the most notable use of the left-arrow (also probably the inspiration for using it in Q#), but I believe R also uses it. The main difference in F# is that it uses the keyword `let` with mutable variables, whereas in Q# `set` was introduced for that purpose, with `let` is reserved for immutables. 

Thanks for the heads up though, you're absolutely right that it was unnecessarily ambiguous. Removing `set` from the example statement, and clarifying the other languages. Won't hyperlink to update-and-reassign just yet though, as that page is also undergoing a significant reorganization.

The keyword `set` is always used to reassign variables bound using `mutable`.

#### Return `resultArray`

> With all three qubits measured and the results added to `resultArray`, we are safe to reset and de-allocate the qubits as before.

Reviewer: `s/de-all/deall/`

After the `using` block's close, insert

```qsharp
        return resultArray;
```
to ultimately return the output of our operation. 

### Understanding the effects of measurement

Let's change the placement of our `DumpMachine` functions to output the state before and after the measurements.
The final operation code should look like: 

```qsharp
    operation Perform3QubitQFT() : Result[] {

        mutable r = new Result[3];

        using (qs = Qubit[3]) {

            //QFT:
            //first qubit:
            H(qs[0]);
            Controlled R1([qs[1]], (PI()/2.0, qs[0]));
            Controlled R1([qs[2]], (PI()/4.0, qs[0]));

            //second qubit:
            H(qs[1]);
            Controlled R1([qs[2]], (PI()/2.0, qs[1]));

            //third qubit:
            H(qs[2]);

            SWAP(qs[2], qs[0]);

            Message("Before measurement: ");
            DumpMachine();

            for(i in IndexRange(qs)) {
                set r w/= i <- M(qs[i]);
            }

            Message("After measurement: ");
            DumpMachine();

            ResetAll(qs);
        }
        return r;
    }
}
```

> Additionally, update your host file to process the returned array:

Reviewer: `s/host file/host program/`?

#### [Python](#tab/tabid-python)
```python
import qsharp
from Quantum.OperationsQFT import Perform3QubitQFT

measurementResult = Perform3QubitQFT.simulate()
print("\n")
print("Measured post-QFT state: [qubit0, qubit1, qubit2]")
print(measurementResult)

# reversing order to show corresponding basis state in binary form
binaryCompBasisState = ""
for i in measurementResult:

>     binaryCompBasisState = str(i) + binaryCompBasisState

Reviewer: Why do you need to reverse the order here? It seems weird to print `[1,1,0]` as `|011>`; I would have expected  `|110>`. Alternatively, if the problem is that the Q# code always returns its results in the wrong order, why not fix up the order on the Q# side?

Separately, you _could_ write this loop as a one-liner

    binaryCompBasisState = ''.join(str(i) for i in reversed(measurementResult))

or (less good IMHO)

    binaryCompBasisState = ''.join(map(str, reversed(measurementResult)))

which might eliminate the need for any explicit comment about "reversing order." (And if you decide you don't need to reverse anything, then the code change is obvious: just drop the word `reversed` from the one-liner. Obvious code is good code.)

Author: Unfortunately the problem is more in that there's not necessarily a "right" order here. It's a slight annoyance that comes from the options we have to represent the computational basis states of a register of qubits: either 
- "big-endian", where the left-most bit corresponds to the first qubit in the register (the `[1,1,0]` here), or
- "little-endian", where that first qubit in the register corresponds to the right-most bit.
The big-endian format is particularly amenable to viewing these operations/states in the linear algebra context, so it's the norm in a lot of quantum computing literature. But, as seen here, representing those basis states with integers instead of bit strings is most useful with little-endian: 
- state `|0> being all qubits in `|0>`: `|0...00>`, 
- `|1>` having the _first_ qubit in the register as `|1>`:  `|0...01>`
- `|2>`: `|0...10>`, and so on.

So, the goal here was to be as clear as possible with how the measurement results of the first, second, and third qubits translate to the integers they're seeing printed by the dump function. Will add more explanation!

print("Corresponding basis state in binary:")
print("|" + binaryCompBasisState + ">")
```

Run the file, and your output should look similar to the following:

```Output
Before measurement: 
# wave function for qubits with ids (least to most significant): 0;1;2
|0>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|1>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|2>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|3>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|4>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|5>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|6>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|7>:	 0.353553 +  0.000000 i	 == 	***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
After measurement: 

> # wave function for qubits with ids (least to most significant): 0;1;2

Reviewer 2: Also "wavefunction" here

|4>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
|5>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
|6>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   
|7>:	 0.000000 +  0.000000 i	 == 	                     [ 0.000000 ]                   

Post-QFT measurement results [qubit0, qubit1, qubit2]: 
[1, 1, 0]

Corresponding basis state in binary:
|011>
```

#### [C#](#tab/tabid-csharp)
Now that our operation is returning a result, replace the method call `Wait()` with fetching the `Result` property. 
This still accomplishes the same synchronicity discussed earlier, and we can directly bind this value to the variable `measurementResult`.

```csharp
using System;

using Microsoft.Quantum.Simulation.Core;
using Microsoft.Quantum.Simulation.Simulators;

namespace Quantum.Operations
{
    class Driver
    {
        static void Main(string[] args)
        {
            using (var qsim = new QuantumSimulator())
            {
                var measurementResult = Perform3QubitQFT.Run(qsim).Result;
                System.Console.WriteLine(

>                     $"Post-QFT measurement results [qubit0, qubit1, qubit2]: ");

Reviewer: Here and on line 541, surely the `$` is redundant?

Author: Whoops, good catch!

|5>:     0.353553 +  0.000000 i  ==     ***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|6>:     0.353553 +  0.000000 i  ==     ***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|7>:     0.353553 +  0.000000 i  ==     ***                  [ 0.125000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
After measurement:
# wave function for qubits with ids (least to most significant): 0;1;2
|0>:     0.000000 +  0.000000 i  ==                          [ 0.000000 ]
|1>:     0.000000 +  0.000000 i  ==                          [ 0.000000 ]
|2>:     0.000000 +  0.000000 i  ==                          [ 0.000000 ]
|3>:     1.000000 +  0.000000 i  ==     ******************** [ 1.000000 ]     --- [  0.00000 rad ]
|4>:     0.000000 +  0.000000 i  ==                          [ 0.000000 ]
|5>:     0.000000 +  0.000000 i  ==                          [ 0.000000 ]
|6>:     0.000000 +  0.000000 i  ==                          [ 0.000000 ]
|7>:     0.000000 +  0.000000 i  ==                          [ 0.000000 ]

Post-QFT measurement results [qubit0, qubit1, qubit2]: 
[One,One,Zero]

Corresponding basis state in binary:

> |ZeroOneOne>

Reviewer: This doesn't look like "binary" to me. :)

Press any key to continue...
```
***

This output illustrates a few different things:
1. Comparing the returned result to the pre-measurement `DumpMachine`, it clearly does _not_ illustrate the post-QFT superposition over basis states.
	A measurement only returns a single basis state, with a probability determined by the amplitude of that state in the system's wavefunction.
2. From the post-measurement `DumpMachine`, we see that measurement _changes_ the state itself, projecting it from the initial superposition over basis states to the single basis state that corresponds to the measured value.

> If we were to repeat this operation many times, we would see the result statistics begin to illustrate the equally weighted superposition of the post-QFT state that give rise to a random result on each shot.

Reviewer: `s/give/gives/`

```qsharp
            SWAP(qs[2], qs[0]);
```

This is necessary because the nature of the quantum Fourier transform outputs the qubits in reverse order, so the swaps allow for seamless integration of the subroutine into larger algorithms.

Hence we have finished writing the qubit-level operations of the quantum Fourier transform into our Q# operation:

<img src="./qft_full.PNG" alt="Three qubit quantum Fourier transform circuit diagram" width="600">

However, we can't call it a day just yet.
Our qubits were in state $\ket{0}$ when we allocated them, and much like in life, in Q# we should leave things the same way we found them (or better!).

### Deallocate qubits

We call [`DumpMachine()`](xref:microsoft.quantum.diagnostics.dumpmachine) again to see the post-operation state, and finally apply [`ResetAll`](xref:microsoft.quantum.intrinsic.resetall) to the qubit register to reset our qubits to $\ket{0}$ before completing the operation:

```qsharp
            Message("After:");
            DumpMachine();

            ResetAll(qs);
```

Requiring that all deallocated qubits be explicitly set to $\ket{0}$ is a basic feature of Q#.

> If it is not performed at the end of a `using` allocation block, a runtime error will be thrown.

Reviewer 4: Maybe we could explain here why? If I'm not wrong it is for other operations using the registers afterward to find them in the state 0. Since programs may involve several operations and qubits are a scarce resource, you want them ready to use anytime they're free. 
This makes me wonder, why is it chosen to leave qubits at "0" at the end of operation instead of at the beginning? My intuition tells me that it has to do with the error rate since applying extra measurements before the wanted result may increase the error rate. However, the same argument could be said about the measurements at the end. Maybe it is to also use qubits for other things apart from operations? Maybe @cgranade knows the answer.

Q# makes it extremely easy to condition the execution of an operation upon one or multiple control qubits.
In general, we merely preface the call with `Controlled`, and the operation arguments change as:

 `Op(<normal args>)` $\to$ `Controlled Op([<control qubits>], (<normal args>))`.

Note that the control qubits must be provided as an array, even if it is a single qubit.

After the `H`, we see that the next gates are the `R1` gates acting on the first qubit (and controlled by the second/third):

<br/>
<img src="./qft_firstqubit.PNG" alt="Circuit diagram for three qubit QFT through first qubit" width="310">

We call these with

```qsharp
            Controlled R1([qs[1]], (PI()/2.0, qs[0]));
            Controlled R1([qs[2]], (PI()/4.0, qs[0]));
```

Note that we use the [`PI()`](xref:microsoft.quantum.math.pi) function from the [`Microsoft.Quantum.Math`](xref:microsoft.quantum.math) namespace to define the rotations in terms of pi radians.
Additionally, we divide by a `Double` (e.g. `2.0`) because dividing by an integer `2` would throw a type error. 

> [!TIP]
> `R1(π/2)` and `R1(π/4)` are equivalent to the `S` and `T` operations (also in `Microsoft.Quantum.Intrinsic`).

> After applying the relevant Hadamards and controlled rotations to the second and third qubits:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
After applying the relevant `H` operations and controlled rotations to the second and third qubits:
```

_However_, besides being inefficient and still imperfect, this would nevertheless only reproduce the relative amplitudes of the basis states, not the relative phases between them.
The latter is not an issue in this example, but we would see relative phases appear if given a more complex input to the QFT than $\ket{000}$.

#### Partial measurements 
To explore how measuring only some qubits of the register can affect the system's state, try adding the following inside the `for` loop, after the measurement line:
```qsharp
                let iString = IntAsString(i);
                Message("After measurement of qubit " + iString + ":");
                DumpMachine();
```

Note that to access the `IntAsString` function you will have to add 
```qsharp
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Convert;
```
with the rest of the namespace `open` statements.

In the resulting output, you will see the gradual projection into subspaces as each qubit is measured.

## Use the Q# libraries
As we mentioned in the introduction, much of Q#'s power rests in the fact that it allows you to abstract-away the worries of dealing with individual qubits.

> Indeed, if you want to develop full-scale, applicable quantum programs, worrying about whether a Hadamard goes before or after a particular rotation would only slow you down. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Indeed, if you want to develop full-scale, applicable quantum programs, worrying about whether an `H` operation goes before or after a particular rotation would only slow you down. 
```

```qsharp
            let register = BigEndian(qs);    //from Microsoft.Quantum.Arithmetic
            QFT(register);                   //from Microsoft.Quantum.Canon
```
The first line simply creates a [`BigEndian`](xref:microsoft.quantum.arithmetic.bigendian) expression of the allocated array of qubits, `qs`, which is what the [QFT](xref:microsoft.quantum.canon.qft) operation takes as an argument.
This corresponds to index ordering of the qubits in the register.

To have access to these operations, add `open` statements for their respective namespaces at the beginning of the Q# file:
```qsharp
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Canon;
    open Microsoft.Quantum.Arithmetic;
```

Now, adjust your host program to call the name of your new operation (e.g. `PerformIntrinsicQFT`), and give it a whirl.

To see the real benefit of using the Q# library operations, change the number of qubits to something other than `3`:
```qsharp
        mutable resultArray = new Result[4]; 

        using (qs = Qubit[4]) {
            //...
        }
```

> You can thus apply the proper QFT for any given number of qubits, without having to worry about the mess of new Hadamards and rotations on each qubit.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You can thus apply the proper QFT for any given number of qubits, without having to worry about the mess of new `H` operations and rotations on each qubit.
```
